# long_description

`mondo` applies variables defined in themefiles to templates defined in generators. `mondo` executes userdefined scripts before any theme is applied, after each theme is applies and after all themes are applied. It can also execute a script after each theme is *generated*.  

THEMES
------

Theme files are located in *MONDO_DIR*/themes, to create a new theme, use the `-n` option.  

The first word of each line is the name of a **mondo variable**, the rest of the line (excluding white space between the first and the second word) will be the value of that variable. Below i create a simple theme called `example`. (the theme name is always it's filename.)  

``` shell
$ cat << EOF > ~/.config/mondo/themes/example
# example theme
author    Nils Kvist
blue #0000FF
fontface Terminus
EOF
```

*in the example above the theme file is created directly, it is strongly recommended to use: * `mondo -n THEME` *to create a theme*.  

Lines starting with `#`, will be ignored.
The example above would result in three variables:    

  * author="Nils Kvist"
  * blue="#0000FF"
  * fontface="Terminus"
 

GENERATORS
----------

Generators are located in *MONDO_DIR*/generator. To create a new generator use the `-t` option. The only file that is needed for a generator to work is *_mondo-template*. If a filename was the last argument when `mondo` was executed with the `-t` (create generator) option, *_mondo-template* will be a copy of that file.  

In the template files, one can use the **mondo variables** defined in the theme files by typing the name of the variable enclosed in double (`%%`) percentage characters, like this:  

``` text
$ cat << EOF > \
  ~/.config/mondo/generator/presentation/_mondo-template
My name is %%author%%, my favorite color is %%blue%%. 
I like to set my terminal font to:("%%fontface%%").
EOF
```

To process this template one can either use: `$ mondo -g THEME` this will *generate* (process), all *_mondo-template* files in each **generator**. `$ mondo -a THEME` will do the same thing AND apply the generated files. We could also use: `$ mondo -u GENERATOR` this will generate all themes for a specific GENERATOR.  

Lets say that our *MONDO_DIR* looks like this:   
``` file
~/.config/mondo
  generator/
    presentation/
      _mondo-template (presentation file)
      _mondo-settings
      _mondo-generate
      _mondo-apply
  themes/
    _default
    example
  post-apply
  pre-apply
```

If we where to execute the generate command on the example theme:  

`$ mondo -g example`  

A file name example would get generated in presentation directory after that the script *_mondo-generate* would get executed (the scripts are empty by default).  

``` file
~/.config/mondo
  generator/
    presentation/
      _mondo-template (presentation file)
      _mondo-settings
      _mondo-generate
      _mondo-apply
      example (generated file)
  themes/
    _default
    example (theme file)
  post-apply
  pre-apply
```

`~/.config/mondo/generator/example`:  

``` text
My name is Nils Kvist, my favorite color is #0000FF. 
I like to set my terminal font to:("Terminus").
```

If we now would execute `mondo` with the apply `-a` option on the `example` theme, the following would happen:  

`$ mondo -a example`   

1. the *pre-apply* script would get executed 
   (empty by default)  
2. if the theme is not generated, it would be generated
   following the same procedure as above, for each generator.  
3. If the variable `target` is set in *_mondo-settings,
   the generated file (*generator/presentation/example*),
   would be copied to the location specified as `target`  
4. *generator/presentation/_mondo-apply* would get executed.
   (*empty by default*)  
5. A file called `MONDO_DIR/themes/.current` is generated
   it contains all variables and is used when `mondo -l var|get`
   is executed.  
6. *post-apply* would get executed  

Most of the autogenerated files have useful comments.  
